Chapter 1

Compare and contrast data, databases, database (management) systems and information systems.
	Data is known facts. A database is a collection of data. A DBMS is software to more easily create, manipulate,
and share a database. I could not find information systems in the book, but Wikipedia defines it as a system to collect,
organize, and store data. This makes it very similar to a DBMS.

Compare and contrast database systems with the following, using the main characteristics of the database approach in your discussion.
data structures and algorithms
	Databases provide abstraction and insulation between the programs and data that data structures and algorithms
do not allow.

traditional file systems
	In a traditional file system two users could have different file systems with most of the same information but
including slight differences and different applications. databases can combine this into one place and remove the
redundancy.

Identify the stakeholders of database systems.
	Database administrators, database designers, casual end users, parametric end users, sophisticated end users,
and standalone end users.

Chapter 2

Explain the significance of the categories of data models. Which type of model is displayed in Figure 2.1?
	High-level/conceptual data models show data how users understand them and low-level/physical data models
show how data is actually stored. Representaional/implementation models are a hybrid that can be understood by users
but still could be implemented directly.
Figure 2.1 is the representational data model.

Explain the structure and significance of the three-schema architecture.
	The significance of the architecture is to seperate user applications and the physical database.
The internal schema holds the physical database. The conceptual shema describes the database structure for users
while hiding details like constraints and types. The external schema shows only the parts of a database that
particular users are interested in.

Explain the tiers used in a typical web-based information system.
	This is a 3 tier architecture. One tier is the client server and one tier is the database server. Seperating
these is the third tier, the application or Web server. It runs applications for the user that process database
queries and it provides security by checking user credentials.
